In heart valve replacement,
a natural valve in your heart
is surgically replaced
with an artificial one
because the natural valve
is not opening or closing all the way.
Opening and closing of the four,
thin, flexible heart valves,
controls the flow of
blood with each heartbeat.
The four valves are the Tricuspid valve,
the Pulmonic valve,
the Mitral valve,
and the Aortic valve.
To replace a valve,
a surgeon makes a cut in the chest
and separates the sternum,
or breastbone.
The heart is stopped
and then cut to reach the valve.
A heart lung machine,
also called a bypass machine
takes over the work of the heart
and lungs during surgery.
The faulty, natural valve
is removed and replaced.
The cut in the heart is closed;
the heart is restarted;
the heart lung machine is removed;
and the chest incision is closed.